Migrate Cassandra extension project (#3913)
spring-projects/spring-integration: src/reference/asciidoc/cassandra.adoc

[[cassandra]]
== Apache Cassandra Support

> Spring Integration provides channel adapters (starting with version 6.0) for performing database operations against Apache Cassandra cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spring Integration provides channel adapters (starting with version 6.0) for performing database operations against an Apache Cassandra cluster.
```

It is fully based on the https://spring.io/projects/spring-data-cassandra[Spring Data for Apache Cassandra] project.

You need to include this dependency into your project:

====
[source, xml, subs="normal", role="primary"]
.Maven
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.integration</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-integration-cassandra</artifactId>
    <version>{project-version}</version>
</dependency>
----
[source, groovy, subs="normal", role="secondary"]
.Gradle
----
compile "org.springframework.integration:spring-integration-cassandra:{project-version}"
----
====

[[cassandra-outbound]]
=== Cassandra Outbound Components

> The `CassandraMessageHandler` is an `AbstractReplyProducingMessageHandler` implementation and ca work in both one-way (default) and request-reply modes (a `producesReply` option).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CassandraMessageHandler` is an `AbstractReplyProducingMessageHandler` implementation and can work in both one-way (default) and request-reply modes (a `producesReply` option).
```

> It is an asynchronous by default (`setAsync(false)` to reset) and perform reactive `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE` or `STATEMENT` operations against provided `ReactiveCassandraOperations`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is asynchronous by default (`setAsync(false)` to reset) and performs reactive `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE` or `STATEMENT` operations against the provided `ReactiveCassandraOperations`.
```

> The type of operation can be configured via `CassandraMessageHandler.Type` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type of operation can be configured via the `CassandraMessageHandler.Type` option.
```

    cassandraMessageHandler.setProducesReply(true);
    return cassandraMessageHandler;
}
----
[source, xml, role="secondary"]
.XML
----
<int-cassandra:outbound-channel-adapter id="outboundAdapter"
                                        cassandra-template="cassandraTemplate"
                                        write-options="writeOptions"
                                        auto-startup="false"
                                        async="false"/>

<int-cassandra:outbound-gateway id="outgateway"
                                request-channel="input"
                                cassandra-template="cassandraTemplate"
                                mode="STATEMENT"
                                write-options="writeOptions"
                                query="SELECT * FROM book limit :size"
                                reply-channel="resultChannel"
                                auto-startup="true">
    <int-cassandra:parameter-expression name="author" expression="payload"/>
    <int-cassandra:parameter-expression name="size" expression="headers.limit"/>
</int-cassandra:outbound-gateway>
----
====

> If `CassandraMessageHandler` is used as a gateway in an async mode, the `Mono<WriteResult>` is produced which is handled on reply producing according to the provided `MessageChannel` implementation.
> For true reactive processing a `FluxMessageChannel` is recommended for output channel configuration.
> In sync mode the `Mono.block()` is called for reply value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `CassandraMessageHandler` is used as a gateway in the default async mode, a `Mono<WriteResult>` is produced, which is handled according to the provided `MessageChannel` implementation.
For true reactive processing a `FluxMessageChannel` is recommended for the output channel configuration.
In sync mode `Mono.block()` is called to obtain the reply value.
```

> If  `INSERT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` operations are performed, the entity (marked `org.springframework.data.cassandra.core.mapping.Table`) is expected as a request message payload.
> If the payload is a list of entities, then respective batch operation is performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If  `INSERT`, `UPDATE` or `DELETE` operations are performed, an entity (marked `org.springframework.data.cassandra.core.mapping.Table`) is expected in the request message payload.
If the payload is a list of entities, then the respective batch operation is performed.
```

> The `ingestQuery` mode expects payload to be present as a matrix of values to insert - the `List<List<?>>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ingestQuery` mode expects the payload to be present as a matrix of values to insert - `List<List<?>>`.
```

                   String title,
                   @Indexed String author,
                   int pages,
                   LocalDate saleDate,
                   boolean isInStock) {

}
----
====

And channel adapter has this configuration:

====
[source,java]
----
@Bean
public MessageHandler cassandraMessageHandler3() {
    CassandraMessageHandler cassandraMessageHandler = new CassandraMessageHandler(this.template);
    String cqlIngest = "insert into book (isbn, title, author, pages, saleDate, isInStock) values (?, ?, ?, ?, ?, ?)";
    cassandraMessageHandler.setIngestQuery(cqlIngest);
    cassandraMessageHandler.setAsync(false);
    return cassandraMessageHandler;
}
----
====

The request message payload must be converted like this:

====
[source,java]
----
List<List<Object>> ingestBooks =
    payload.stream()
            .map(book ->
                    List.<Object>of(
                            book.isbn(),
                            book.title(),
                            book.author(),
                            book.pages(),
                            book.saleDate(),
                            book.isInStock()))
            .toList();
----
====

> For more sophisticated use-cases, the payload can be as an instance of `com.datastax.oss.driver.api.core.cql.Statement`.
> A `com.datastax.oss.driver.api.querybuilder.QueryBuilder` API is recommended to build various statements to execute against Apache cassandra.
> For example, to remove all the data from `Book` table, a message with a payload like this can be sent to the `CassandraMessageHandler`: `QueryBuilder.truncate("book").build()`.
> Alternatively, for a logic based on a request message, the `statementExpression` or `statementProcessor` can be provided for the `CassandraMessageHandler` to build a `Statement` based on that message.
> For convenience, a `com.datastax.oss.driver.api.querybuilder` is registered as an `import` into a SpEL evaluation context, so a target expression can be as simple as this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more sophisticated use-cases, the payload can be as an instance of `com.datastax.oss.driver.api.core.cql.Statement`.
The `com.datastax.oss.driver.api.querybuilder.QueryBuilder` API is recommended to build various statements to execute against Apache Cassandra.
For example, to remove all the data from the `Book` table, a message with a payload like this can be sent to the `CassandraMessageHandler`: `QueryBuilder.truncate("book").build()`.
Alternatively, for logic based on a request message, a `statementExpression` or `statementProcessor` can be provided for the `CassandraMessageHandler` to build a `Statement` based on that message.
For convenience, a `com.datastax.oss.driver.api.querybuilder` is registered as an `import` into a SpEL evaluation context, so a target expression can be as simple as this:
```

====
[source,xml]
----
statement-expression="T(QueryBuilder).selectFrom("book").all()"
----
====

The `setParameterExpressions(Map<String, Expression> parameterExpressions)` represents bindable named query parameters and is used only with a `setQuery(String query)` option.

> See Java and XML samples mentioned before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See Java and XML samples mentioned above.
```
